# Note 21-30

> [Software Construction](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/)

[TOC]

## Reading 21: Thread Safety

This reading talked about three major ways to achieve safety from race conditions on shared mutable state:

* Confinement: not sharing the variables or data.
* Immutability: sharing, but keeping the data immutable and variables unreassignable.
* Threadsafe data types: storing the shared mutable data in a single threadsafe datatype.

## Reading 22: Locks and Synchronization

* Make thread safety arguments about your datatypes, and document them in the code.
* Acquiring a lock allows a thread to have exclusive access to the data guarded by that lock, forcing other threads to block — as long as those threads are also trying to acquire that same lock.
* The monitor pattern guards the rep of a datatype with a single lock that is acquired by every method.
* Blocking caused by acquiring multiple locks creates the possibility of deadlock.

## Reading 23: Queues and Message-Passing

* Rather than synchronize with locks, message passing systems synchronize on a shared communication channel, e.g. a stream or a queue.
* Threads communicating with blocking queues is a useful pattern for message passing within a single process.

## Reading 24: Sockets and Networking

* Client/Server Design Pattern: *C-S* arichitecture
* Sockets and Stream
    * Socket: listening socket `ServerSocket`; connected socket `Socket` (one end of connection of clients and servers)
* Wire protocols: telnet; http; smtp...

## Reading 25: Callbacks

* Callbacks: A callback is a function that a client provides to a module for the module to call.
* First-class functions: functions that can be passed as arguments to other functions.

## Reading 26: Map, Filter, Reduce

Basic FP concepts

## Reading 27 & 28: Little Language

> [Music Player](https://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/27-little-languages-1/ex27-music-starting.zip)

Very similar to UW PL course. The thoughts of the two readings can be used in ps3.

## Reading 29: Team Version Control

* Disaster Recovery:
    * `git revert`: remove a commit from the current branch.
    * `git show revision`: the diff of a commit(as HEAD).
    * `git show revision:path/to/file`: output an old version of a file.
    * `git checkout revision -- path/to/file`: replace a file with an old version.

## Reading 30: Ethical Software Engineering

Honesty is the foundation of good academic work.
